# Getting Started 
Gu is fundamentally a library built to handle view rendering, nothing more nor less.
When creating Gu, my main focus was on creating a solution that did not bind itself 
tightly to the perculiarities of either the frontend or backend, but allow each content to 
be renderable regardless of where it is loaded. 

The concepts in Gu are practially simple and rely majorly on a functional and interface based system,
where the structures which define the markup to be rendered are combined functionally and components 
are required to match/implement specific interfaces to enable specific features eg Reaction for page/view update.

Gu is in no way a Flux-like framework or library, nor does it provide complex structures and 
layed down paths by which such can be attained, It simply provides a baseline to render the desire output and 
gives the freedom for the developer to determine how his/her application data flow  works.


## The Guide
In this guide, we simply will be looking at Gu is its only two possible representation 
or in essense, the two ways you will ever use its constructs, which are as a `Page` and as `Component`. 
This allows you to grasp the available spectrum and capabilities provided by Gu and 
to evolve and define for yourself how you wish to mix and match Gu into your projects and workflow.

*Gu has evolved over its development lifetime alot, loosing and adding new ideas into the way it works but 
I have ensured to keep the tenant of simplicity and a non-intrusive architecture, that greatly meet the rendering 
needs of the developer and also grant freedom in how it should be used with in projects.*

### A Page
The Page approach is pretty much as its called, a "Page".  Combining ideas from [Goa](https://goa.design/) in 
the way its structures are defined and generated, Gu's [Design Package](./designs) defines structures which 
unlike [Goa](https://goa.design/)  do not provide any form of code generation but produces the desired effect of defining with intent 
the content expected on a page. In a sense, it is the organizational structure when wanting to define multipage or 
single page applications with gu.

Basically a page is a resource amongs many resources which depending on the availability
of a predefined route to be validated against, will be rendered.  On the client side this means any resource which 
matches the current URL hash which gets rendered onto the browser DOM, while on the client it is the 
URL provided to generated a complete html response to render a full page 
with its differents parts (i.e head, links, scripts, styles and body tags).

Pages on the client listen for update requests from the things they render if this matches the library reaction interface, 
which effectively provides a easy but simply way  for developers to build reactivity to changes in structures.

With Pages in Gu, comes the concept of a ResourcesManager, this manager is created to managed and handle 
the response and rendering of all pages according to the current requested URI on the client and on the server
the provided URI. Generally a Resource/Page object, are not directly handled by the  developer has they are 
generated by the internals of  Gu's [Design Package](./designs) during initialization and runtime.  

As a note, what defines the criteria for which page or pages get rendered by the ResourcesManager is the routes 
to which this resources get pegged down to, if no route is provided then it is understood that the page is simply 
a part of any URI to be rendered. This is intentional but not advised has structurally and organization wise, resources 
should be self encapsulating of their entire components and parts.

Creating a page is rather simple has it requires the calling of the Resource function which embodies the 
content or intent of content for that page through the provided functions and structures Gu provides.

Below is an example of a page which a single Hello text printed on the page.

```go
package main

import (
        "honnef.co/go/js/dom"
	"github.com/gopherjs/gopherjs/js"
        . "github.com/influx6/gu/design"
        . "github.com/influx6/gu/trees"
        . "github.com/influx6/gu/trees/elems"
        . "github.com/influx6/gu/trees/events"
        . "github.com/influx6/gu/trees/property"
)

var _ = Resource(func() {
        DoTitle("Hello App")
	UseRoute("/hello")

	DoMarkup(func() *Markup {
		return Div(
			CSS(`
				${
					width:100%;
					height: 100%;
				}
			`),
                          IDAttr("hello-page"),
			Header1(
				Text("Hello"),
				ClickEvent(func(ev EventObject, tree *Markup) {
					js.Global.Call("alert", "I just got clicked, Yaay!!!")
				}, ""),
			),
			Span(Text("Click me")),
		)
	}, "", false)
})

func main(){
	New(&redom.DOMRenderer{
		Document: dom.GetWindow().Document(),
	}).Init()
}
```

The code above flurishes with  declarations of  intent which when read fully describes the  
outcome expected on the page. As stated within Gu, a Resource is a single page, which encapsulates
 what is expected with its logic and architecture which then gets rendered as a page based on the URI
 critieria.

We create a resource 
```go
var _ = Resource(func() {
    ....
})
```

The main function handles the creation of the `ResourceManager` by calling the `New`
function from the `gu/design` package which expects as an optional argument a 
renderer which will be called when on the client to handle page rendering during 
initial load and change of browsers URi. Gu already provides this and can be provided 
at load to get the client rendering adequately.

```go
	New(&redom.DOMRenderer{
		Document: dom.GetWindow().Document(),
	}).Init()
```

The internals of the resource definition are as simple, by using the design package 
functions we quickly define the title expected for that page and the route criteria 
which is matched by looking at the hash if on the client and through the url supplied 
through calling a render function which builds the adequate response of the complete 
page when dealing on the server.

```go
	UseRoute("/hello")

	DoTitle("Hello App")
```

The final piece and meat of the page is the intention declared about the markup to be 
rendered. As Gu provides a functional approach which creates structures underline 
that describes to the renderer what it expects on the page as its content, this is something
which will be heavily used has its the core of what makes it possible to render both 
on either the client or backend seperating a tight coupling between either ground

```go
	DoMarkup(func() *Markup {
		return Div(
			CSS(`
				${
					width:100%;
					height: 100%;
				}
			`, struct{ Size string }{Size: "130px"}),
			ID("hello"),
			Header1(
				Text("Hello"),
				events.Click(func(ev EventObject, tree *Markup) {
					js.Global.Call("alert", "I just got clicked, Yaay!!!")
				}, ""),
			),
			Span(Text("Click me")),
		)
	}, "", false)

```

The `DoMarkup` function accepts either a `Markup` structure or a function which 
returns a markup or a lsits of markup points, which are then organized with in 
the resource to make up its content. The reason we use this approach is because 
by the very name of the function, an intent of contents gets declared and allows 
us to either target or vary the organizational architecture to which a page is to 
be describe it.

The `DoMarkup` as well as an alternative function within the `gu/design` package,
called the `DoView`. In Gu

The `Markup` architecture found in the `gu/trees` package, defines structures which
varying and provides a complete set of HTML/HTML5 sturctures through functions 
that easily define either the CSS to be include and the attributes and markup content.

## A Component